Sometimes, just knowing your inputs and outputs is not enough, because they can hide the middle
interactions of your reactives. I know this is a smaller app, but it tries to get across
the point of, we can export these inner reactive values. It's not just your inputs and outputs,
you can export these inner reactives. I'm interested in this first letter. I know the
phrasing of the first letter in your name is B, or whatever the first part of your name
is, but I want to actually just have that letter as a value that I can test against.
We have our recording, and I'm going to adjust this copy and adjust this recording. I'm going
to do some alterations for it, so we can export those test values. Let's say, let's
call a new test, so export test values, and we'll say export values just for fun. In this
case, the app is not going to be doing anything specific with screenshots, or the app itself
is not dependent on the width, so I'm going to remove the height and width restriction
and just use the defaults. I'm going to set the inputs of name Barrett, and I'm going
to click greet. One thing we could do here is just get value, and we want to say output
equals first letter. This should have, if I'm running the application, this should be
this phrase. We can just copy it, and I'm going to say first letter, not just the first
letter, but the first letter phrase. We'll say expect equal to first letter phrase, and
the whole, like my first letter in my name is B. For now, I'm just going to comment that
earlier test. We're going to just run all the tests right here. This will start a new
app driver given the application. It's just called export values to have it as a name.
Set the name to Barrett. I then click greet, and then I get the value of the output first
letter, but we should just actually see what this is like in the console just because it's
fun to see this interactively because I'm just taking a guess that first letter phrase
is this. First letter phrase. It does equal the first letter in your name is B, so this
expect equal passed, and we saw that pass. The little warning here of deleting unused
screenshots or snapshots is of these. That is because I commented this test, so test
set is like those tests don't exist anymore, so we should delete them. That's okay. If
I undo this and rerun it, those snapshots will come right back. This is how we can get
the whole phrase, but the thing I was interested in was the letter B, and this is where it
becomes very neat in that we can export those values. There's a method under Shiny called
export test values, and export test values is a key to reactive expression set of arguments
that it can take, so in here I could say first letter. I could just call it first. It doesn't
really matter. It's my own custom key, but I'm just going to, for consistency, I'm going
to just call it first letter, and this will equal to the output of the reactive expression,
so the reactive expression that I'm executing is first letter, and then since first letter
is a reactive, I need to execute it at the end. Okay, so a lot of things there, but what
does that give us? If we were to, since the app has been updated, we need to rerun our
app, so I will kill the old one, app stop, and then let's actually just get us back into
the state that we are at, so let's make a new app driver. Let's call set inputs. Let's
click, and let's just look at the values that are currently in the app with get values,
so this will return all the input, output, and exported values. We just added a first
letter exported value. Yay, so we have our inputs that we remember. We have input greet
and input name. We have our outputs of first letter and greeting, and then we have export
this first letter, and now we have access to this reactive value, so it doesn't need
to be outputted. We can just use an exported value, so for this one, we can also say app
dollar get value of export equals first letter, and here on 15, this get value of output as
first letter is retrieving output first letter, where I'm more interested in export first
letter, so I will say export of first letter, and we'll do expect equal to B, and if I run
this, it passes. Just for proof, if I change it to a J and I run it, it'll say, oh, error
found actual is B, but you expected J, so we do want B, so I'll change it back and run
it just to confirm. Great, we're good, and then I will run all the tests because it's
unit tests. We should be able to run these all the time quickly. Great, now we have two
checks passed. Awesome.